# GOM Chairs meeting

Attendees: Nicholas Car, Ivana Ivanova

Minutes:

1. GOM routine ontology publication
    * focus on end-to-end publication of DQ ontolgy
        * create an OWL ontology from DQ's UML - need to reanimate the conversion tool (Nick: [Issue 16](https://github.com/ISO-TC211/GOM/issues/16))
        * review the DQ OWL (Nick & Ivana)
        * generate HTML from DQ OWL (using [pyLODE](https://github.com/RDFLib/pyLODE))
        * establish the IRI for DQ ontology [Issue 17](https://github.com/ISO-TC211/GOM/issues/17))
        * publish the DQ ontology when DQ is ready
        * work on getting all GOM IRIs resolving [Issue 18](https://github.com/ISO-TC211/GOM/issues/18))
    * try and do all the above tasks in February
    * use the above tasks to create a predictable proceedure
        * document the procedure and describe in GOM repo
        * establish the procedure in March, in readiness for a mid-term meeting
2. Publication of code lists as SKOS vocabularies
    * generate SKOS vocabularies for all the codelists in one standard (19115-1 and/or DQ)
        * generate HTML from RDF (secretly use VocPrez)
        * place these in GOM/experimental for demo
    * go back to TC with recommendations with codelists as evidence
        * remove codelists from ontologies
        * create a separate, but related, IRI scheme for them
            * demo dummy IRI resolution
        * expect the IRIs to resolve
        * expect the codelists to have lives outside of their defining ontologies (standards)
    * done in Fed & March
3. Involvement of TC staff in GeoSPARQL
    * wait for 1.2 WG announcement
    