= November 2025 Plenary 

== Agenda

This Agenda will be lead by the GOM convenors with a brief discussion on each point and showing of online resources where indicated.

=== Agenda Outline

. *Welcome*
. *Standards' Semantic Web reviews report*
. *Codelist vocabularies report*
. *Ontology production proposal*
. *Proposed GeoSPARQL standard review*
. *Discussion*
. *Next Meeting*

=== Agenda Details

==== 1. Welcome

. Reminder of https://www.iso.org/publication/PUB100397.html[ISO Code of Conduct]
. Meeting protocols
. Roll call
.. (re)introduction of co-chairs: Ivana & Nicholas
. How to contribute/amend Agenda/Minutes
. Start Recording

==== 2. Standards' Semantic Web reviews report

. No standards assessed since last plenary
. Coming up: 19115 & GeosPARQL

==== 3. Codelist vocabularies report

===== Progress to date

* ~50 codelists are now publish in production on the OGC's Rainbow at https://defs.opengis.net/prez/catalogs/ogc-cat:hosted/col/defisotc211org:codesets
* PIDs have been allocated using `def.isotc211.org`, e.g. https://def.isotc211.org/common/DateTypeCode
* all new 19115 codelists and some older codelists have been publised in the `/common/` register
* legacy registers of `/CI/`, `/DS/`, `/MD/`, `/RE/` & `/SV/` retained for now
** detailed codelist versioning is implemented to handle legacy & new
** e.g. `isDefinedBy` for terms' defining vocab v. `inScheme` for reuse
** we propose to deprecate legacy registers
* codelists/sets are linked to their defining standards via a https://defs.opengis.net/prez/object?iri=https://def.isotc211.org/common/standard[supplementary vocab of standards]
** this is the only non-codelist/set vocab so far implemented
* Extended https://def.isotc211.org/RE/ItemStatus[Register Item Status Codes] allow for the indicateion of `original` & `addition` variants of `stable`
** to show stable terms as being from the standard `original` or additions
* several voccabs - from 19137 - are SKOS+ vocabs, indicating OWL classing
** e.g. https://defs.opengis.net/prez/object?uri=https://def.isotc211.org/common/ValueStructure/bag[ValueStructure]
* technical content management procedures almost complete
** sync from managed repo to Rainbow ready for complete automation - little OGC effort
** validation & annotation built in
** follow vocab procedures elsewhere

Initial production publication is now complete.

===== Next steps

1. completion of publication all 19* codelists
2. outreach to codelist users
** encourage users to move to official versions and provide feedback
** guage apetite for extended ontology and alternate forms
3. how to use
** documentation - on patterns used for versioning, statuses, codelist extension
** training - within TC & beyond. Engagement with WGs and individuals to best use the vocabs
4. exercise governance
** probably for 19115 codesets
5. demo of vocabs within ontology context - next item
6. demo of further SKOS+ vocabs
** to demo creeping semantics
** inc. https://defs-hosted.opengis.net/prez-hosted/catalogs/hosted:iso-19157-3/collections/ns10:qualityMeasure[19157 already test published on the Rainbow 'Hosted']

==== 4. Ontology production proposal - redux

* we propose a renewed attempt to create ontologies for all 19* data models
** that have been brought into the Harmonised Model
** we will aim for good documentation as well as machine-readable ontologies
*** publication via the OGC Rainbow too - capability arriving soon
** we have tested hand-generation of 19157-1
** will aim for automation from HM, after testing manual creations
*** will implement UML as per the HM in documentation

It is feasable to implement _all_ 19* models by next plenary, now that publication infrastructuer is in place - from codelists.

===== Lessons from renewed ont. generation

From a test generation of 19157-1 ontology, we believe we are mostly still in line with issues raised on previous ontology generation process in 2023:

* issues relating to embedded codelists no longer exist
* we need to be able to vary the ontology from the UML to meet ontology Good Practice
** e.g. property reuse, viz in 19157-1: `report` & `report` with differnt constraints; `name` & `nameOfMeasure` and `description` & `evaluationMethodDescription`
** changes will be very minor
* we need better IRIs
** like implemented for codelists
** still using `def.isotc211.org`

We will demo all these things for 19157-1 before next plenary

==== 5. Proposed GeoSPARQL standard review

OGC's GeoSPARQL is proposed for co-adoption by TC-211 via _fast track_.

Ontology & vocabulary implications are unclear:

* GeoSPARQL assets - 2 ontologies, 3 vocabs & a validator - will soon all be published on Rainbow
** we propose the ISO co-adopted version refers directly to these
** governance concerns are the same as for the TC's codelists but an OGC ongoing body has been determined: Geosemantics DWG

GOM still wishes to see terminology in GeoSPARQL harmonised into TMG.

==== 6. Discussion

==== 7. Next Meeting

May Plenary?
